# About

This web application is a frontend for the [Citellus](https://github.com/zerodayz/citellus) framework by rcernin

# Components

* python 2.x
* [Flask framework](http://flask.pocoo.org/)
* [Patternfly](http://www.patternfly.org)
* sqlite
* OAuth2 - Google


# Boilerplate

* [this tutorial](https://scotch.io/tutorials/build-a-crud-web-app-with-python-and-flask-part-one)


# Why a database?

* sosreport caching
* It's a lot easier working data out of a database. 
* It's going to be fun to pull out all kind of statistics out of our customer's sosreport without having to grep in 7TB of files.
* Trending ^^
* Store plugin metadata
* We can easily implement nice features like history and preferences.

# Known issues
* The first time we load a case, it takes ~30 seconds to parse and insert all the data in the DB. This might be because that we're using db.merge.
* It's my first python webapp, and I think some of the things could be better implement, like the helpers modules.
* ~~The first time we load the webapp (and when the browser cache is expired), it can take a good 30 seconds to download the assets.~~ This was solved by using a CDN for the assets.

# TODO
* ~~Generate a graphic with the points returned~~
* Possibility to yank the files when they are not there
* Possibility to compare (magui) two sosreports
* Upload a sosreport
* Keep an history of the searches for future reference
* Dynamic priorities on checks
* Toxify the code
* Describe each function
* Clean debug/repetitive code
* Fix helpers/sysstat.py - Need to make objects for stats and statset
* Sanitize and validate inputs
* Have a way to save the charts to share with others
* More advanced filters on metrics
* Add current resource graphs on the side of the report page
* Breadcrumbs
* Sort reports by date desc
* Size of reports 
* Generate a text report of the failure that could be pasted in a case

# Installation
## Python libraries

We first create python's virtual environment and we souce the activate file. WSGI will be able to use this environment using the python-home variable.

```
$ cd /var/www/citellus
$ virtualenv-2.7 .venv
$ . .venv/bin/activate
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## User accounts

You can login using OAuth with Google as provider.

## Apache config

```
WSGIDaemonProcess citellus-web python-home=/var/www/citellus/.venv

WSGIProcessGroup citellus-web
WSGIApplicationGroup %{GLOBAL}
WSGIPythonHome /var/www/citellus/.venv

WSGIScriptAlias /citellus /var/www/citellus/run.py
LogLevel debug


<Directory /var/www/citellus>
    Require all granted
</Directory>
```

## DB init

The database is initialized based on the models.py file.

Because sqlite doesn't support ALTER TABLE, if we change the schema in the models.py file, we need to flush the DB and recreate it:

```
$ sudo -u apache bash
$ id
uid=48(apache) gid=48(apache) groups=48(apache) context=unconfined_u:unconfined_r:unconfined_t:s0-s0:c0.c1023
$ pwd
/var/www/citellus
$ . .venv/bin/activate
$ export FLASK_CONFIG=development
$ rm -rf migrations/ db/citellus.db
$ python manage.py db init
$ python manage.py db migrate
$ python manage.py db upgrade
 ```

 The script `bin/resetdb.sh` executes these commands.

## System Activity Report (SAR)
Most of the sosreport we get have SA files generated by sysstat v10. It appears that the format has changed considerably and it looks like sysstat-11 is not backward compatible, so you can't parse sysstat-10 files with sysstat-11. If you use sysstat-11 on your environment (Fedora for example), you will need to compile sysstat-10. This is not necessary on collab-shell for now.

This is how I build sysstat-10
```
 $ cd /git
 $ git clone https://github.com/sysstat/sysstat.git
 $ git checkout tags/v10.1.5
 $ git pull
 $ mv sysstat sysstat-10.1.5
 $ cd /git/sysstat-10.1.5
 $ ./configure
 $ make
```
I didn't want to run make install because I want to keep sysstat-11 for system wide.

I've included a copy of sadf binary in the bin/ folder. We now need to set the appropriate context on it (See SELinux Section)

## SELinux
* Give read access to the /cases folder to apache
```
# semanage fcontext -a -t httpd_sys_content_t '/cases(/.*)?'
# chown -R apache:apache /cases/
```

* Give write access to the sqlite database
```
# semanage fcontext -a -t httpd_sys_rw_content_t '/var/www/citellus/app/citellus.db'
# chown -R apache:apache /var/www/citellus/db/
```

* Give execute access to the binary directory
```
# semanage fcontext -a -t httpd_sys_script_exec_t '/var/www/citellus/bin(/.*)?'
# semanage fcontext -a -t httpd_sys_script_exec_t '/git/citellus(/.*)?'
# chown -R apache:apache /var/www/citellus/bin/
```

* Restorecon
```
# restorecon -R -F -v /var/www/citellus/ /cases/ /git/citellus/
```

# Citellus Team

* rcernin
* [iranzo](https://iranzo.github.io/)
* pcaruana
* mschuppert
* [dvd](https://valleedelisle.com)
